Xavier is the youngest son of Baron Hawthorne, ruler of the green and verdant land of Thale.
The Baron was much loved by his people, being a jovial and sporting man and a strapping and fearsome warrior, as were Xaviers older brothers, whom Xavier dismissed as ‘thick headed fools, built for farming and fighting.’ Xavier, a thin and gangly creature, could never best his brothers at sport or wield a heavy shield.  Growing shrewd and envious, he spent most of his time alone, buried in his books and toiling over potions in his workshop in the cellar.
Xavier always believed it was his gangly, weak form his father could not embrace, where in fact it was that there was a coldness about the boy, and that he had a haughty and piercing glare that reminded him too much of the boys grandmother, a thin and calculating woman almost entirely without warmth.  So unlike his own beloved Glofa, bonny and bright, who doted on all her sons.

One year, a  terrible plague befell the land of Thale and many died, including the Barons beloved wife and his two elder sons. With nobody to farm them the crops withered and died on the stalk and the people fell into famine.  No aid came, for all knew that the town was afflicted by sickness.   The baron, heartbroken and ravished by age watched his lands fall into ruin andhis own health declined.
With his brothers gone, Xavier found his status elevated.  It was now he who would inherit the castle and title when his father was gone, and he took to the work involved in running the land, vowing to restore the prosperity of Thale.

One morning the people of the village awoke to find strangers in the fields, strange creatures with their faces and hands bound by cloth. ‘I sent word to a far off land that we were in need of farm hands’ announced Xavier in the town square. ‘Their own land was ravished by drought and they have no home; I have extended the hospitality of Thale and warm lodgings and food at the castle.  They will not speak to you, for they do not speak our language, and I have provided them with coverings to protect them from the air, which they fear carries the sickness that has taken our sons and daughters.’  The townspeople were a little alarmed the strangers, but they were desperate for help, and help they received.  The new workers toiled, they sewed the fields and repaired homes and gathered crops.  As Xavier had promised, the workers never spoke to the townspeople or seemingly to each other, and trudged back to the castle every evening
.
One day, the widow Tulia is at her cottage where one of the new workers is repairing the thatch.  Descending the ladder that Tulia holds, his thin shirt snags on a nail and tears, revealing a ring on a piece of cord around his neck.  Tulia gasps, for it is the same ring she buried around the neck of her beloved who fell to the dreadful sickness seven moons ago.  She asks the man ‘sir, that ring..was it a gift from your love?…..I had one just like it…..a name day gift from my father the silver smith….he did not make another…...see how it bears my initial and the little flower I am named for…...’ The man does not answer.  Growing frantic she screams at him ‘HOW CAME YOU BY THAT RING?………………. THIEF! YOU HAVE STOLEN IT FROM THE GRAVE OF MY LOVE!’ Frantic, she claws at the face of the man, who does not move.  She claws the cloths from his face, and when the wrappings fall away there is the face of her love, long since dead.
Screaming, she runs through the town to the castle ‘THEY ARE THE DEAD! THE DEAD WALK!’
Hysterical, she runs to Thogron, the Barons long time trusted friend and fighting companion who oversees the armed men. at the castle  Flanked by his strongest men, Thogron confronts Xavier and demands to know the terrible truth. ‘ I did what had to be done! The town was dying we needed men! ’ said Xavier.  ‘Hold him’ says Thogron. ‘The Baron must know’ .  The shock of his sons transgressions are too much for the Baron. With his dying breath he decrees that Xavier has brought shame on their family and shall have neither his title nor his lands, which he entrusts to Thogron in stewardship.
Thogron destroys Xaviers workshop and burns all his work while the soliders hold Xavier.  As the flames grow higher in the a foul smoke rises and the army of the dead fall to the earth, never to move again.
Xavier leaves Thale, vowing to himself to raise an army and return to take the title and lands that are rightfully his.
