Born into aristocracy the only child of an affluent family, Lyra Erelond had perhaps the most privileged upbringing a child 
could wish for. Beloved by her doting parents, Phaendar and Kallista, Lyra grew up in a world of banquets, ballrooms, and 
beauty. Her parents spared no expense in her education or socialisation, and were able to provide the finest tutors and 
suitors in all the land. 

Coming from a wealthy family of high elves, Phaendar too had enjoyed a privileged youth until he was disowned by his family 
for having fallen in love with someone beneath his station, the beautifully exotic tiefling, Kallista. Not being one to take 
no for an answer, Phaendar took matters into his own hands. He took his entire life’s savings to travel across the realm, all 
the way to Daggerford with Kallista. Upon their arrival, they were wed in a humble ceremony, in the presence of childhood 
friend, the now Duchess, Emily Morwen, one of Phaendar’s many connections acquired from his formative years at boarding 
school. With Phaendar’s keen mind and Kallista’s natural charm, the couple forged a new life for themselves, turning around 
failing businesses and developing their own mercantile empire. They soon became known throughout the entire Sword Coast for 
their business acumen, eventually earning their place as trusted financial advisors in the high court of Daggerford.

And so benefited their daughter from their wealth. With every advantage at her disposal, Lyra became an accomplished academic 
and performer. She excelled at her studies in literature, theatre and language with such grace and poise, that to her peers it 
looked as effortless as breathing. “Surely” they thought, “she is the happiest girl in all of Daggerford!” Unfortunately for 
Lyra, her peers did not rejoice in their observation. Much to her chagrin, the majority of them did just the opposite, seizing 
upon every chance they had to taunt and humiliate her. In particular, they set upon her unusual physiognomy; her strange black 
eyes and pointed ears, her lilac skin and absent reflection. Had she only been too bookish, the other students might have 
eventually let her be. But by being half-caste, Lyra remained a target of bullies throughout the entirety of her academic 
years. 

By the time she was nine years old, she had already begun to develop an icy stare, with which she would bore imagined holes 
through the heads of her tormentors. By thirteen, her heart grew cold and stony, after an incident in which her classmates 
stole and read aloud her diary, including a particular entry in which she described her fondness for one of the most popular 
young men in school. At seventeen, though outwardly she was blossoming into a beautiful young lady, inwardly her very soul had 
begun to turn black. As the years passed by, and the cruelty of her peers worsened, so too did the rage that consumed Lyra’s 
mind. She began to wonder increasingly how her parents could ever have done this to her. How could they have educated her so 
highly, knowing nobody else in this backwater town could ever hope to understand her? How could they be so foolish as to raise 
a child to be exceptional in this cesspool of mediocrity? And how could they be so blind, so SELFISH! as to bring a mixed race 
child into this town of petty, frog-faced, narrow minded, inbred imbeciles?!

And so it was upon the day of her twenty-first birthday, Lyra fled her coming of age party and, under the cover of darkness, 
stole away to a town where no-one yet knew her. It was a rash decision, and quite out of the ordinary for Lyra. But she could 
stand the monotonous throes of prejudice no longer, her soul burned for a new lease of life. Seven years she spent travelling 
from place to place, searching for a life in which she might at least be accepted and even valued for who she was. To her 
dismay, however, her efforts were futile. It seemed as though every new village she came across reacted with even more 
volatility than the previous one, and for this Lyra grew evermore hardened and solitary. Feeling increasingly isolated and 
desperate for a sense of belonging, Lyra became less and less discerning of any potential companions. During her third 
solitary year, she fell in with a morally ambiguous crowd of misfits that comprised an underground thieves’ guild. They 
accepted her for who she was, or at least they did not particularly care. It was her skills they admired. She was soon 
recognised for her innate litheness and penchant for learning, and subsequently ascended the guild’s ranks quickly. But no 
amount of lucre or success could afford her that which she coveted most: a home. By the end of her seventh year out of 
Daggerford, Lyra began to tire of the uncouth miscreants that surrounded her, and truth be told, she could no longer deny the 
guilt of having abandoned her parents. She began to wonder if perhaps Daggerford was as good as it was ever going to get. And 
so she decided to return to her place of birth. She travelled for three days straight without rest, subsisting on foraged 
berries that grew in road-side hedges, and stopping only to refill her canteen in streams and rivers. When at last she reached 
the town gates of Daggerford, Lyra faced no difficulty gaining entry to the town, and she did not notice the guards gasp as 
she passed through, nor did she hear the township whispering, “by the gods, can it be? The missing Erelond child, she has 
returned!” 

Lyra strode faster and faster through the town until she was once again facing the manor she had so hastily fled seven years 
earlier. Only now did she hesitate, somewhat abashed by knocking on the door to what was at one time her home. Inhaling 
deeply, she rapped at the door with a trembling fist. When no-one answered, she tried again, knocking louder this time. Still 
nothing. When no one came upon her third attempt, Lyra tried the door. It was unlocked, so she stepped inside. To her 
astonishment, the manor was decrepit. Nought was there except the dusty linens which covered the furnishings and every nook 
and cranny thick with cobwebs. Beginning to panic, Lyra ran through the rooms, searching for a sign of life, calling for her 
mother and father, only to be met with further silence. Eventually, she found herself in the courtyard, which was in such 
disarray that she could bear it no longer. She ran from the house without thinking, through the courtyard and manor grounds 
until she came to the glade where she and her parents had picnicked and shared afternoon tea, where her mother had taught her 
to paint and with her father she had practised her marksmanship. But when she reached the great oak tree in the centre of the 
glade, she came to halting stop. Beneath the boughs of the great oak stood stoically was an ornate, marble gravestone. As she 
read the gilded epitaph, Lyra fell to her knees in despair. 


Here lies

Kallista Erelond 621 – 730

Dear Wife, can I e’er forget or shall the grave eternally sever? No, in my memory you still live yet, and in my heart you will 
live forever.


And 


Phaendar Erelond 589 – 731

Devoted husband to Kallista, and loving father to their only child. 

Followed his wife into paradise after succumbing to heart sickness.


Three days later Lyra awoke in a bedchamber within Castle Daggerford. A kindly maid attended to Lyra, who listened blankly to 
how she came to be where she was now. It appeared that once word of her return had reached the ears of Duchess Morwen, a 
missive was to be delivered by the guards posthaste, summoning Lyra to the castle, so that the Duchess might deliver the sad 
news to Lyra gently. Unfortunately, that missive was late in reaching Lyra, who the guards found lying unconscious, apparently 
having passed out in a fit of exhaustion and grief at her parents’ graveside. Once awakened and being deemed of satisfactory 
health, Lyra was granted an audience with the Duchess, during which her parents’ last will and testament was revealed. She was 
to inherit the Erelond estate and a modest sum of gold. It was enough means for Lyra to survive for the next two years but she 
would still need to find a source of income. With limited funds and haunted by her past, Lyra once again left Daggerford, this 
time though as a mercenary. 
